Another architecture which is actually a little bit ad
hoc but it happens in reality is that we get the backroom and the front room,
but we have each department alone.
Each department alone would go and fetch,
have separate ETL processes.
So, if we have three departments here,
we're going to have three ETL processes
totally unaware of each other, totally uncoordinated.
They would repeat each other's work,
they would model dimensions differently.
This is totally opposite to the idea of conformed dimensions.
The data dimension here might be different than here,
might be different in there.
So, a data mart in principle inside,
it's also facts and dimension.
It's a much smaller data model or dimensional data model and it's actually
focused only on one department or one business process.
The independent data marts architecture.
The problem of it is that it can give you uncoordinated and inconsistent views.
So, at the end of the day I might be summing up something in a department and
another department would be summing the same thing
and we would get different views because we already started,
our cleaning process is not the same,
the design of our dimensions is not the same,
the facts are not the same and so on.
The thing is of course there is a little bit of
an advantage or acknowledgement of reality.
That type of advantage is that, hey,
every department just wants to live on its own and wants to do its own job,
it wants its autonomy and doesn't want to coordinate with others.
When you go into logistics of companies sometimes coordination is a huge overhead.
Naturally, if you can afford and it's good to have the coordination,
but some people just say, "Okay,
autonomy can get things done faster even if not so consistent."
But in general, it is regarded as a practice which is not really encouraged.